Hi, everyone.
In this next year, we are going to grab our previous button and we are going to make it functional.
Oh, right now, this part I was supposed to cover in the previous lecture, but it got very long,
so I just postponed it to this lecture and we're going to dedicate an entire lecture to it as well.
So the way that this works is going to be very, very, very similar to our next button.
All right.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to go ahead and.
So what what what what is it that we want to do?
So whenever we click on the next button, we should be able to click on the previous button as well.
But what?
We can do it.
All right.
So let's go ahead and let's accomplish that.
So in here, Ron, I'm going to do is first off, I'm going to grab our previous meeting and I'm going
to add an event listener to it.
We are going to listen for a click by the Browse by the user, and then we are going to run a function,
write.
And in the function, what I'm going to do as first off, I want to know what the current images, so
I'm just going to grab that from there and I'm going to post it here.
And then when I know what the current images image is, I want to grab the previous element sibling
of the current image, because this is the the previous button.
And whenever I click on the previous button, I want the current image to be switched by the previous
image, right.
So I'm just going to go ahead and I'm going to say const.
And instead of calling it the next image, I'm just going to call it a previous image.
And for this, we are going to grab the current image and we are going to say previous elements of link,
and that's how simple it is.
All right, so the and the final thing that I want to grab is I want to grab the index for the previous
image as well.
So it's going to be previous index and we are going to go into our images and from there we are going
to apply a method which is find the index.
And when they find the index method, it's called we want to run a function and function from a function
is going to have a parameter of image and the image is going to be equal to the previous image.
So this is the result of this function is going to be in a numeric value because this is a fine index.
It only finds index indices and it provides it to this images and then we can grab it through this previous
index, a constant or variable.
So what I want to do here is I want to go ahead.
Basically, it's the same thing that we did here.
So what I want to do is I want to see a list that style dot transform.
Is going to who is going to be equal to this?
I'm just going to stay right here.
But the difference is that now we are not.
We are not actually actually moving forward right now, and it is not going to be the next image, it
is going to be the previous image.
Right.
And the next thing that I want to do is I want to grab the current image, current image, that class
analyst and I want to remove the current image class.
And I want to add it to the previous image.
So previous image that classless start at.
And I want to say current image.
So whichever image is the previous image, it is going to receive a class of current image.
And in our next button, whichever image which was the next one, received this class.
Right.
So we are just moving backward and that's basically it.
So if I go ahead and if I click on this one, we still can see our image, our error.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to go ahead and remove this head in class because we are going
to add a dynamically anyway.
So.
So if I go ahead and if I move forward, I should be able to move backward as well.
So if I go all the way to the end, so this is at the end, we can go all the way to the front as well
with this image.
So each time when we click this, it is going to grab this entire list and it is going to transform
it and transform property's value is going to be the width of this image, which is fifteen, thirty
six.
Now there are still two missing pieces of this puzzle.
The first piece is whenever we click whenever we are on our first image.
We want to remove the previous arrow and whenever we are on our last image.
We want to remove the next error.
All right, so these are the two pieces of the puzzle missing, but we are going to cover them in our
next lecture.
The thing that I want to do here is I just want to decrease the number of lines of code because we have
studied functions in JavaScript and functions.
They allow us to write reusable code.
So what I can do is I can just go ahead and cut these three lines and these three lines and create another
function.
So what I'm what I'm going to do is I'm going to come to the top and I'm going to create a move to move
to a IMG function.
All right.
So I'm going to create another function.
And this is going to be a function expression.
We are going to say move to image.
And, um.
All right, and in here, we are going to create a function and we are going to pass in three parameters
and I'm going to tell you why.
So the first parameter is going to be list.
The second parameter is going to be the current image and the third parameter is going to be the next
image.
And in here, what I want to do is I just want to go ahead and cut all of that, just cut it and just
pasted here and let's save it.
And now let's call this move to image inside this next button, because we need to call it to be able
to use that.
And we need to pass in the parameters, so the arguments for those parameters, so the first argument
for the list we are going to pass in the list itself for the current image we are going to pass in the
current image and for the next image you are going to pass in the next image.
So now if I save it and if we come here, it still works.
It's all right.
It works, but there is still something missing.
I mean, we cannot call this function inside our previous because we don't have any next image.
All right.
So now this next image part is actually like it's a problem for us.
So we should come up with a way to change this name, to be able to call this function in this previous
button as well, because we have talked about how functions are allow us to write reusable code.
So what I am going to do here is instead of writing next image or previous image or instead of creating
a function expression for the next image and creating another function expression for the previous image,
which beats the point of functions, what I can do is I can remove this next image with the target image.
So if I write target image now, target image could be the next image.
It could be the previous image.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to go back and I'm going to grab all the next and I'm going
to add I'm going to replace him with target image and I'm going to save and in here we are going to
pass in the next image for that for that target image.
Now, this list argument is going to come and be passed instead of the list.
The current image is going to be passed instead of this current image.
And the next image is next.
Image is value is going to Pastan instead of this target image.
And we are going to get our effect as well.
So if I click on it, we still see that it is working.
But what if what about the previous image?
So we are going to grab this and we are going to remove everything and we are going to just call this
function.
I'm going to provide a space there and I'm going to provide a space they're now in here, we do have
a list specified because it's right here.
We do have a current image, which is right here, but we don't have any next image.
So instead of next, we are just going to call previews.
And if I click on this, it is going to go it is going to move forward.
And if I click on this, it is going to move backward.
All right.
So now we have successfully used our function as a reusable code.
That's it for this next year.
See you guys in the next one.